[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Hi.
I'm George Noory and welcome
back to "Beyond Belief."
What you're about to hear
today is a dramatic program
that has to do with
the Federal Reserve.
So many people believe
the Federal Reserve
is part of the US government.
As you will hear from G.
Edward Griffin, it is not.
>>ANNOUNCER: He has challenged
the status quo and pushed
boundaries for decades.
G. Edward Griffin is
best known as the author
of the groundbreaking
book, The Creature
from Jekyll Island, which
exposes the Federal Reserve.
Since the 1960s, Griffin
has confronted conspiracies
over American foreign policy,
the international monetary
system, and the United Nations.
He is no stranger to
controversial opinions ranging
from the political to the
scientific, your health,
and more.
>>NOORY: Well, in
this special edition
of "Beyond Belief"
with G. Edward Griffin,
we're going to talk
primarily about the Federal
Reserve and government
and what they're
doing to affect all of us.
Edward, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>G. EDWARD GRIFFIN: Thank you.
It's a pleasure to be here.
>>NOORY: It's good to meet you
in person after so many "Coast
to Coast" appearances.
>>GRIFFIN: It is, indeed.
I get to see the face
attached to the man.
>>NOORY: And I do, too.
And I do, too.
When we talked years
ago about The Creature
from Jekyll Island, I got more
response on the radio show
than any interview I've
done and it is amazing.
So we're going to
get into that, but I
want you to explain what
the Federal Reserve is
because there are still
a lot of people out there
who think that the Federal
Reserve is part of the US
government.
It isn't.
What is it?
>>GRIFFIN: That's right.
Well, before I
answer that question,
I'd like to comment on
the response that you had.
It's truly amazing
to me because when
I wrote this book
I thought, nobody's
going to want to read
about the Federal Reserve.
I thought, I wasted
seen years my life
and I ordered all these books.
I said to my wife, oh my
gosh, what have I done?
And it's amazing that
the popular response
has been so strong.
And in looking back on
it now in retrospect,
I do understand it
more clearly than when
I started the project.
Because the banking system
and the monetary system
touches every
aspect of our lives,
and especially lately
with the economy getting
under great stress
and people worried
about what happens next, there
is a lot of interest in that.
But now to the question,
what is this thing,
this thing I call the creature?
Well, you're right, it's not
a government agency at all,
although I thought it was
when I started down this path.
And they go to great lengths
to make it appear that it is.
Actually, it has the power
of government behind it,
which is what makes it seem
like a government agency.
>>NOORY: And the chairman is
appointed by president, right?
>>GRIFFIN: Yes, he is but
that's an interesting question
in itself because in
most cases-- in fact,
I think in all cases--
the president has never
met the chairman
when he appoints him.
He doesn't know who this guy is.
>>NOORY: He's just told--
>>GRIFFIN: He's just told.
Yeah.
And that leads down
another path, who tells him
and who has the
authority to suggested
that here's the list of three or
four people you might consider?
So that's another issue.
So what is it?
Well, it's a cartel,
that's the bottom line.
It's no different than a banana
cartel or an oil cartel--
>>NOORY: Or a drug cartel.
>>GRIFFIN: A drug
cartel, exactly.
It happens to be
a banking cartel.
And maybe that word means
a little explanation.
A cartel merely is
a shared monopoly.
It represents a
group of companies
who appear to be competitors.
They're in the same
field but they're
tired of competing
with each other
because to be successful
in competition,
you have to offer a better
product or service or a lower
price or something and
they don't like that.
So they decide after a while
to get together and share
the market and stop competing
so they can guarantee
their control over the
market and more profits
and that sort of thing.
And that all started at the
turn of the last century,
when America gradually and--
maybe not so gradually, rather
quickly, now that I
think about it-- moved
from the tradition of free
enterprise competition, which
is how America became
great in my view
because companies
did have to compete.
After the biggest
companies-- JP Morgan
and the Rockefellers-- they
got to the top of the mountain,
they decided they didn't
want any competitors coming
after them.
>>NOORY: They wanted
to own the mountain.
>>GRIFFIN: They wanted
to own the mountain
and take the latter away.
So they started to join
together and form cartels.
And that means that they
agree with each other
to divide their markets
and their patents
and their processes that
we won't compete here.
We'll all charge the same
price or you get North America,
I get South America, you
get to produce automobiles,
I produce tractors,
and this sort of thing.
And the end of that process is
that the people are paying more
for the product or services
and they don't have the choice.
And the corporations are
very happy, thank you,
because they now own the
mountain, as you say.
>>NOORY: Prior to the Federal
Reserve's creation, though,
what did we have for a monetary
system in this country?
>>GRIFFIN: A very good
question because people think,
and if you read the textbooks it
says pretty clearly that we had
chaos in the monetary system.
And that's why we
needed the Federal
Reserve is to organize
it and get rid
of that chaotic environment.
The truth of the matter is we
had a lot of little Federal
Reserves in America.
Every state had its own
version of what we now
call the Federal Reserve.
>>NOORY: Independent little
banks and things like that?
>>GRIFFIN: Well,
independent, yeah.
The bank of a state would they
go to the state legislature
and they would negotiate
with the politicians
to get certain
privileges and the right
to do things that other
companies couldn't do.
They make promises they don't
have to keep, for example.
And they would say,
well, since banking
is so important to the
economy and to the nation
or to the state,
in this case, we
want to know that
you will protect us
and if we got into trouble,
you will bail us out--
they didn't use that
phrase in those days,
but that's what it was--
you'll make us whole
again because if you don't it
will be bad for the country
or for the state.
But that was going on
in all of the states.
And so that was the reason
there were bank runs,
banks were failing and
people were saying,
we want our money
back that we deposited
into your venerable
bank and now you tell us
you don't have the money.
But we want it now.
And so that was a
terrible exposure
of the fraud that was
made legal, by the way,
state by state.
And so banking had
a bad reputation.
And instead of solving
the problem, what
they did is they all
got together and said,
let's all share this problem,
let's make it bigger,
let's make it national
rather than on a state level.
And they didn't change anything
except to make it bigger
and kick the can down a little
bit and the can got bigger.
So we inherited all
of those problems
when the Federal Reserve
System was created.
>>NOORY: Who helped create it,
what president at the time?
>>GRIFFIN: Well, Woodrow
Wilson was president
at the time when the
bill was passed, in 1913.
And that's an interesting
story in itself
because Wilson was actually
the candidate of the bankers.
He was selected by a small
group of very elite banking
interests.
Colonel Edward Mandell
House was his name,
lived in the White House, by
the way, when Wilson was--
>>NOORY: He lived
in the White House?
>>GRIFFIN: He lived, had an
office in the White House,
had two rooms in
the White House.
He was the hidden
influence behind Wilson.
And Wilson admitted
that, he wrote about it.
He said, Wilson
teaches me everything,
what Wilson says I believe.
And Wilson was really
the unknown president
of the United States.
And the story there
is that Wilson
campaigned to a heavy
degree against the banks.
He said, we have a problem
with the banks, the elites
and Wall Street and
we have to break
the grip of the money trust.
And that was the
theme of the day
and Wilson was in
the middle of that.
People didn't know
that he was their man.
And it's a tactic,
by the way, we
see all the time in politics.
You lead your own
opposition and then
betray the people
that believe in you.
So that was the game was played
and Wilson was the quarterback.
>>NOORY: So they formed
this organization called
the Federal Reserve, which
then by calling it federal,
everybody thought it was part
of the United States government,
dictating monetary policy.
But the policy came from these
independent and private banks
that were part of
the Federal Reserve.
>>GRIFFIN: Well,
that is it exactly.
Because in 1910
and thereabouts, it
was clear that the
political pressure
was moving in the direction
of some kind of legislation
to control the banks.
And so these guys
are not stupid,
they're are some of the most
brilliant men in the world.
And they said, well,
this is going to happen,
we're going to have legislation
to control the banks.
Why should we sit here
and let somebody else
write this legislation for us?
We'll do it, we'll write
our own legislation.
Which is why they had
to do it in secret.
And that brings up a
very intriguing part
of this whole story.
The reason I called my book
The Creature from Jekyll Island
is because this whole thing
was done on a private island
called Jekyll Island,
off the coast of Georgia.
They went there so that
they wouldn't be seen,
there wouldn't be
newspaper reporters.
>>NOORY: It's like
the Bohemian Grove
people and all of the
Bilderbergs, all those things.
>>GRIFFIN: Get out of the public
view while they did this thing.
>>NOORY: And in those
days, they didn't
have the kind of media
and social networking
that we have today.
It was easy to
hide in those days.
>>GRIFFIN: Pretty easy.
Relatively easy, yeah.
Especially Jekyll
Island was privately
owned by these very people.
It was called the
Jekyll Island Club
and it was a resort island.
>>NOORY: Is it still around?
>>GRIFFIN: Oh, it's
definitely still around.
You should visit it.
Everybody should visit it.
>>NOORY: Anybody can visit this?
>>GRIFFIN: Well, anybody can
visit it today, absolutely.
And in those days, you
had to take a ferry boat
to get across the inland
straits and now you
can drive across a
bridge and there you are.
And all of these mansions that
the super wealthy had there--
they called them cottages at
the time-- big 14 room, 15 room
houses and so forth, they've
been restored, many of them,
and you can visit and see
how the elite of the period
lived in great elegance.
>>NOORY: Oh, they lived well.
>>GRIFFIN: Very well.
They actually had
bathrooms on every floor.
It was amazing.
>>NOORY: I take a look at a clip
from the former Fed Chairman
Ben Bernanke.
This will astound a lot of you.
>>JOHN DUNCAN: --caused problems
for the Fed or for the autonomy
if that legislation was to pass.
>>BEN BERNANKE: My concern
about the legislation
is that if the GAO
is auditing not
only the operational
aspects of our programs
and the details of the programs,
but is making judgments
about our policy decisions,
that would effectively
be a takeover of monetary policy
by the Congress, a repudiation
of the independence of
the Federal Reserve,
which would be highly
destructive to the stability
of the financial
system, the dollar,
and our national
economic situation.
>>NOORY: And now let's take a
look at Bernie Sanders talking
about the Fed.
>>BERNIE SANDERS: I understand
that this amendment will not
be supported by everyone.
Some may suggest, inaccurately,
that this amendment,
and I quote, because I've
heard this statement already,
takes away the independence
of the Federal Reserve
and puts monetary policy
into the hands of Congress
end of quote.
Let me address those concerns
by simply reading exactly
what is in the amendment.
This is not complicated.
And I quote from page
four of the amendment.
This is what it says.
I don't think you could be
more straightforward than this,
quote, nothing in
this amendment shall
be construed as interference in
or dictation of monetary policy
by the Federal Reserve System by
the Congress or the Government
Accountability
Office end of quote.
You simply can't be more
straightforward than
the language in this amendment.
So when people tell you
that this amendment is going
to interfere and have Congress
dictate monetary policy,
it is simply not true.
>>NOORY: So Ed, we have two
different juxtaposed positions.
You've got the former Chairman
of the Federal Reserve, Ben
Bernanke, telling you, we
don't need to audit the Fed,
and then you have Senator
Bernie Sanders saying,
we've got to get this done.
Who wins?
>>GRIFFIN: Well, it certainly
isn't the American people.
And I have kind of a jaundiced
view of that because we all
understand-- not
all, but many of us
understand-- that you
can't trust the banks.
You can't trust the bankers
because they have a motive.
They have their own agenda
and it doesn't necessarily
include the best interests
of the American people.
But juxtaposed against
that is the idea
that well, now all we have to
do is turn it over to Congress
and we can trust those
politicians to do what we
can't trust the bankers to do.
Actually, in my
view, I don't think
you can trust the
politicians, either,
to create money out of nothing.
The concept of who controls
the creation of money,
whether it's Congress or the
banks, is an important concept.
But it's not as
important, in my view,
as the extent of that control.
If the control were
limited to creating
money that was backed by
something of intrinsic value,
which means that it could
be limited in supply
and can't just be
created at will--
>>NOORY: Which
they're doing now.
>>GRIFFIN: Which
they're doing now
and which all
governments do also.
If we turned it over
to a government, that
wouldn't change, you see.
It's just a question
of who gets the power
to create money out of nothing.
And the idea is,
well, since we know
that the banks have
abused that power,
let's turn it over to these
trustworthy politicians
and then we'll be safe.
And I don't buy
into that at all.
>>NOORY: No.
It could be worse.
>>GRIFFIN: It could be worse,
and certainly not any better.
If the concept of what
that power includes,
we should not allow anyone to
create money out of nothing.
It should be backed
by something that
takes human effort to
produce, has intrinsic value.
And that all by itself would
solve, in my view, about 95%
of all of our monetary issues.
>>NOORY: But they don't want
to lose that kind of power, Ed.
>>GRIFFIN: Oh, no.
They fight over
who has that power.
>>NOORY: I mean can you imagine
creating money out of nothing?
This would be like you,
you're at home saying,
I need $10,000 today.
You don't have it, so you
make it and now you have it.
And that's exactly what's
been going on all these years.
I've always
wondered, though, why
we can do it in
the United States
to create this
incredible wealth out
of nothing and some
other third world
countries that have
nothing, have no money,
they can't do it.
Is it because people
look at the dollar
as the power dollar
in the world?
>>GRIFFIN: Well, that's
exactly it, George.
The comparison between
the money in Zimbabwe,
for example, and the United
States Federal Reserve notes
revealed that
neither one of them
are worth anything
intrinsically.
>>NOORY: Zero value.
>>GRIFFIN: Zero real
intrinsic value,
except maybe you could
light a fire with them,
the value of burning paper.
You might, if you were
freezing, have a little bonfire.
That's about it.
Maybe if you needed to shim a
table up so it didn't it tilt,
you could get a
stack of $100 bills
and have some intrinsic value.
But beyond that, that's it.
So why do they accept
American dollars
around the world and not
the Zimbabwe dollars?
And the answer,
as you suggested,
is the strength of the dollar.
How you define strength,
why is it strong?
It's primarily because
it's already in place,
it's been in place since
the end of World War II.
The Bretton Woods agreement
set the American dollar
in the center of
international trade.
It's also strong
because of US military.
There have been
countries that have
tried to break away from
using the American dollar--
>>NOORY: Iraq being one of them.
>>GRIFFIN: Iraq
being one of them.
And whenever some
country decides
it wants to use something
other than American dollars
in international trade, in
particular in the purchase
and selling of oil,
well, all of a sudden
those countries are declared to
be rogue countries and centers
of terrorism and we
send in the Marines
and we have a regime change.
>>NOORY: Interesting
how that works.
>>GRIFFIN: Very interesting.
>>NOORY: And then with
that regime change,
the new leader wants
to keep the dollar.
>>GRIFFIN: Wants
to keep the dollar
and we're back in
operation again.
>>NOORY: That's how
Qaddafi and people like
that-- when they wanted to
get off the dollar for the oil
standard, that's where
they made their mistake.
>>GRIFFIN: Then all of a
sudden, they're the bad guys.
And frankly, I don't think
there are many real good guys
out there, but we're
highly selective on which
ones are the worst.
>>NOORY: Now, as
far as the American
public is concerned, Ed, do they
have any say so in any of this,
or are we at their mercy?
>>GRIFFIN: Hard question.
Right now I think the
mechanism is still there
for the American people
do have a say so.
But it's not being used
because Americans are so
influenced by the educational
system, influenced
by the media, influenced by
politics that they don't really
perceive, I believe,
don't perceive
the world in the reality
that they should.
And so they're easily swayed.
They still have the power, but
they're not using the power.
We've surrendered a lot of
power to the political parties
without realizing the
political parties, both
of the major ones, are
really under the influence
of these same
international forces
and they give us the illusion
of going back and forth--
oh, the Republicans are going
to win this year, the Democrats,
no, they're going to take over--
and we get this the feeling
that we're having a contest
between two opposing groups.
But when you look at
the control mechanisms,
both of these groups are
really in the same sphere
and controlled by a relatively
small group of people
that have the same domestic
and international policies.
So right now it's
kind of a farce,
but we still have
the mechanism there,
if we have the
knowledge and the will,
to break the grip
of this control.
I think we could return
to where we should be.
>>NOORY: I hope so, too.
The Fed has kept interest rates
at virtually zero for years,
inching it up just slightly.
It will probably inch up for the
rest of the year just slightly.
Now they're talking about
negative interest rates, which
means that if you put
$10,000 in a bank, in a year
you can go and get your
money and it might be $9,916.
It'll be less than what it
was when you brought it in.
How can they do this?
>>GRIFFIN: Well, they've
been doing that for years
through inflation, except we
look at the numbers and not
the purchasing power.
If we had a
purchasing power index
that we were using instead
of the numbers, dollars,
we would see that they're
already decreasing our savings
account every year.
So they can do it because
the American people don't
understand it and they
don't have any options.
Now, if they actually start
showing the numbers going down
in terms of hard numbers,
rather than in purchasing power,
it presents a real challenge
because people will take
their money out of the banks.
They'll say, well,
we're not going
to play that game anymore.
So now we hear a lot of talk
about getting rid of currency
so that people can literally
not take their money out
of the bank.
>>NOORY: It's almost impossible
to get your money out
of the bank today.
Ed, if you go to the bank
and you make a deposit,
it's got to be a
certain amount, right?
If it's over that, you
have to report that-- I'm
talking about a cash deposit.
And then when you
want to take it out,
it's like robbing Fort Knox.
In some cases,
they come up to you
say, well, we can't do that.
I'm not talking
about a lot of cash.
Sometimes you want $3,000,
$4,000 out of the bank account.
They say, you can't
take that money,
we don't have it here right now.
I've never heard of this before.
>>GRIFFIN: Well, it's
increasingly happening
and we're going
to see more of it.
And I think the ultimate
solution to that dilemma
is that they'll
simply eliminate cash.
They're trying to
sell that right now
as being a good thing.
We should want that because cash
is used by criminals and drug
lords and that sort of
thing and it's inconvenient
and you can get robbed
and all these things
they're using to sell us on
the idea of getting rid of cash
and going strictly to a
denominated type of currency
that's all checkbook money.
And that way, we have
no ability to withdraw.
We cannot withdraw, except to
buy something and then we can
buy a crate of
oranges or something.
Now we've got money
outside of the system,
but oranges will
rot and so forth.
>>NOORY: It's like
Bitcoins, isn't it?
Is that what they
want to do with us?
Bitcoins, everything's digital?
>>GRIFFIN: Yeah, I
think they would like
to have everything digital.
Exactly.
Because that way we can't
escape the system, you see.
As long as money
is real, if it's
backed by gold or silver or
marshmallows or something
that you can use,
people have some way
to escape that kind
of absolute control.
But if money is
completely digital
and you can't take
it in any other form,
they have you completely
under their control.
>>NOORY: What about
the oil cartels,
the drug cartels that are
making hundreds and hundreds
of millions of
dollars illicitly?
If there's no cash,
how is a drug cartel
going to transfer electronic
money into a system?
>>GRIFFIN: Well,
it's very simple.
>>NOORY: You can't do that.
>>GRIFFIN: In my view,
it's very simple.
And this is going to be a
controversial statement,
but all they have do
is just buy Congress.
In other words, there's a lot
of money in the drug cartel
business and they have a
lot of political influence
and they have exceptions.
They will be able to find
exceptions to these rules.
Honest, law abiding
people will not.
But if you're sitting on
the cash flow involving
hundreds of millions of dollars,
you can buy politicians.
And as long as the system is
politicized like it is now,
that means you can buy
an exception to the rule
that other people have to obey.
>>NOORY: In your opinion,
will the Federal Reserve
ever go away?
>>GRIFFIN: Hard question.
I'd like to say it's
not will it, it must.
If men are to continue
to live in freedom
and any kind of dignity,
they must throw off
this kind of control that's
being built around them.
If they don't, it will hardly
be a humanized society.
It will be a beehive society
and will be totally controlled
through the monetary system.
We're getting in
that direction now,
we're moving in that direction.
So my answer is a
reluctant one because I
fear that we're heading
in the opposite direction.
But I say we must
make that happen.
We must.
We must dedicate
ourselves to that.
And no matter what it takes,
we must bring that about.
We must break the grip
of that money trust.
>>NOORY: When you wrote The
Creature from Jekyll Island,
did you expect that kind of
response, the response being,
oh my God, there's a
Federal Reserve out there
and they're doing this to us?
>>GRIFFIN: No.
No, I didn't really.
In fact, it was
kind of a surprise
to me that I had any kind
of positive results at all.
It's one of those cases, I
think many people experience it.
You learn as you go.
You become a teacher
because you've
learned a few things and
people ask you to explain it
and in the process
of explaining it,
you discover, oh, there's
something I don't know.
And you go back and
you learn that and now
you have a little
more knowledge.
And as you continue to
teach, you continue to learn.
And that's been the
story of my life.
I thought I understood
something early on,
and then I realized
10 years later
I was just a babe in the woods.
>>NOORY: You still
had to learn more.
>>GRIFFIN: Yes,
learn more and more.
>>NOORY: We used to be on
the gold standard, gold
backing our money.
We don't have that anymore.
So realistically, how weak
is our monetary system?
It could collapse at any time.
>>GRIFFIN: Well, yes.
And it probably will, as long
as it is based on the concept
that it now is based.
A monetary system is
useful only to the extent
that people will use it
and willingly use it.
You can force people to use
a monetary system, of course,
and then you're not
talking about a system
that we want to live in.
You're trapped, you might
as well be in prison.
It's sort of a prison without
walls, with economic walls
instead.
So yeah, we have to
break that system.
And I think that
we have to return
to some kind of a standard
of measure of value,
otherwise we're going to be
just put into an economic prison
and we will have no escape.
>>NOORY: We seem to be
like sheep, though, Ed.
We just seem to follow along
just doing whatever government
dictates to us because we really
don't have much of a choice.
Isn't that the bottom line, we
don't have much of a choice?
People need money.
>>GRIFFIN: Well, that
is the test, isn't it?
Choice, we must have choice.
And we do have choices still,
but they get harder and harder.
It used to be that we
could make easy choices,
but the growth of a
tyrannical government all
around the world, not just here,
but everywhere in the world,
is all about limiting
those choices so that we
have fewer and fewer options.
And that's what's been
going on, certainly
going on in my entire life.
I'm surprised to find out how
far it was already progressed
when I tuned into it.
Because I was born into
the system thinking,
this is America and I love
America and I still do.
I still think it's the
best country in the world,
but now I realize what's
been happening to it.
They've been whittling away at
it, chopping pieces out of it.
And they'd been doing that long
before I came on the scene,
long before I was born
even, and I didn't know it.
That's the thing.
And I think, unfortunately,
many people today still
don't know that this
process is going on.
So although we remain
loyal and happy citizens
and grateful citizens,
we have to, I believe,
take on the responsibility
of saying, wait a minute,
this is my country,
this is my system,
and they're doing bad things
to it and I have to defend it.
I must stop it, I
must reverse it.
It's an obligation
of patriotism,
I think, that we have.
>>NOORY: How big to fail is it?
We saw back in 2007-2008
that they would not
like big banks fail,
they're too big to fail.
What could happen now?
What about the next
economic downturn?
>>GRIFFIN: I'm very bad
at making predictions
because usually I'm off in
timing, not by substance.
>>NOORY: Not in concept.
>>GRIFFIN: Not in
concept, by timing.
I always think the
bad things are going
to happen sooner than they do.
They still happen, but
I miss them by date.
So I guess the question
is, where are we headed?
Is that the essence
of the question?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GRIFFIN: It depends on
us, that's the bottom line.
If we do nothing, if we
make no changes at all,
we're just headed into
something new in history,
I think, something new.
Prior to this
point, we've always
had the ability to rebound.
We can go through bad
experiences, we can have wars,
we can have world
wars, and yet cities
rebuild; families, they
recover; corporations
recover, they rebuild.
I think we're going
into something
now that's a little
bit different,
and that is that for the first
time in history on this planet,
all of civilization is being
brought into a global one
unified-- the plan.
There's no place to go.
There are no escape
hatches, there are no doors
that you can go
out the back way,
there's no field that
you could rebuild on
because it's all now one.
If they can succeed in capturing
the whole world this time,
there will be no place to go.
And if they succeed in
eliminating money, for example,
except through digits
that the governments give
to you in reward for your
being good boys and girls,
essentially, complying
and don't resist.
You get reward points and
you live well like that.
In other words,
what I'm saying is
if you envision the
world becoming much
like a military organization,
where there is rank,
and you don't really have to
buy anything because everything
is provided by the system.
You go into the mess hall
in the food was there.
You don't have to buy it
because you're in the military.
You don't have to buy clothes
because they're issued to you.
You don't have to buy
transportation because there
are trucks and everything.
So you don't really
need money anymore
under a military system.
And I think that's
perhaps a good analogy
for the type of system
we're moving into,
where money will no longer
even be in existence.
It will just be
credits of some kind,
bonus points depending
on the extent
to which you serve the system.
And if you step outside of that,
they'll just cut off your bonus
points and you won't be
able to eat or live--
I think we're headed
for that kind of a thing
and that's new in history.
>>NOORY: It's scary.
>>GRIFFIN: It's scary.
Yeah.
We have to stop it
because once we get there,
it's hard to imagine how
mankind could get out of it.
>>NOORY: Will we ever get to
a point, Ed, where we wake up,
check our bank accounts,
and the money's gone?
It's just gone.
>>GRIFFIN: Well, it's
already happened.
Maybe not all of the
money is gone, but look
what happened in Cyprus and--
>>NOORY: That's scary.
>>GRIFFIN: It's scary.
And some of the money was gone,
big chunks of it just gone.
And it points to the fact
that today's view of banking
is a little different
than it was 100 years ago.
100 years ago, you put
your money in the bank
and the bank said, well, thank
you, we'll guard your money
and if you want it back,
we'll give it back to you
because that's our contract.
Now you put the
money in the bank
and they say, thank you
for investing it with us.
It's now our money and let's
hope we can do well with it.
But if we can't,
well, we both lose.
>>NOORY: Will the FDIC
truly be able to ensure up
to $250,000 per account
if we had a disaster?
I don't think so.
>>GRIFFIN: Well, they can if
they take it from us first
and then give it back to us.
Yeah, that's how they'll do it.
That's how they do it.
So they create the
money out of nothing
and then say, here,
you can have it.
It didn't exist 10 minutes
ago, but now you have it.
Which means that the
inflation would be so rampant
that it's worthless.
>>NOORY: Ed, we've got some
Facebook questions here
for you.
And I want to go through them.
Kevin mentions, what do you
know about Chinese bonds
and Chinese investments
with the Federal Reserve?
Is there anything there?
>>GRIFFIN: Well, the active
word there is "know," do I know?
I really don't have first
hand information on that.
It's my impression-- as long
as that word is understood--
my impression that Chinese
have over the years
acquired tremendous amount of
government equities, bonds.
But they stopped buying
them some time ago
and gradually are
liquidating them.
They want to get out of
bonds as quickly as possible,
but since they have
so many of them
you can't just do
this all at once
without disrupting the
international economy.
And also the Chinese are
dependent on the value
of those bonds because
they hold so many of them.
So they can't do anything
that would suddenly
downgrade the value
of those bonds
because they'd be
hurting themselves.
>>NOORY: They'd crush themselves
>>GRIFFIN: They'd
crush themselves.
So I think that's
the primary reason
they're in a very slow process
of getting rid of those bonds.
They don't want
those bonds, they
want to be independent of them.
And I think what they're
doing is gradually
trying to transfer
their assets from bonds
into precious metals.
>>NOORY: From Santa
Fe, New Mexico,
Carrie writes, what would
happen to the economy
if we simply abolished the Fed?
I don't think we
can't do that anymore.
I think we've gone too far.
I think The Creature from Jekyll
Island has gotten too big.
>>GRIFFIN: Well, I
think it has to happen.
But the question
is, how rapidly?
Can it be done cold turkey?
I agree that cold
turkey-- let's face it,
we're sort of like
a drug addict.
Were addicted to the
Federal Reserve System,
we're addicted to
this free money
that is created easily and
pumped into the system.
And we all have
Federal Reserve notes.
And so if we just get rid of
all of that, all of a sudden
we're back practically to
living in caves eating raw meat.
What do we do for money?
So it's clear that we can't
just get rid of it quickly.
But I do believe that
it could be phased out
over a period of time.
I don't know what that
time would be but,
in my view it probably
would be five, maybe 10
years at the most.
If we gradually introduced
a real currency that
was backed by something
like gold or silver,
that had value, and then let
people choose between the two,
I think we'd see a process
whereby people would start
cashing in their old
Federal Reserve notes,
which were backed by paper-- and
that's all they are-- and say,
I would rather spend 100 of
these old Federal Reserve notes
that are gradually decreasing
in value every day of my life
and put them into
a currency that
is gold or silver that
is gradually increasing
every day of my life.
And I'll take a
discount to do it.
And I think if we
had the freedom
to do that and a real currency
in existence to do that it
would probably take, in my view,
maybe five years and everybody
would have switched over and we
would have made the transition
not entirely without a
little disease and pain,
but we would make it
without collapsing.
That's the point.
>>NOORY: There's a program
called Better Call Saul
out there, Edward, and it's
about a shyster attorney trying
to make a living,
based in New Mexico.
It's an offshoot from the
Breaking Bad TV series.
And Saul is meeting
with a client
who wants to secede
from the United States.
He owns some acreage and
he wants that acreage
to be its own little nation.
And so he has hired
Saul, the attorney,
to sue and to do that.
They started talking
about Saul's fee
and they came to
an understanding
that he'd get a
retainer of $1 million.
And the individual who wants to
secede from the United States
said, I'll give you
half a million up front.
Well, Saul is sitting
there going crazy
because that's more money
than he's ever had this life.
The guy goes to his safe
and brings back a tray full
of $500,000, gives it to Saul,
and Saul is just like in shock.
But he starts
looking at the money
and it's printed up with
that guy's face on it.
They're $100 denomination
notes, but it's
got that guy's face on it,
the guy who wants to secede.
They're worthless.
And Saul looks at it and
goes, well, what's this?
I can't take this money.
And the guy said, in due time
it'll be worth something.
I kind of feel that way
about our money right now.
>>GRIFFIN: Well, which way, that
it's going down or coming up?
>>NOORY: That it's going down.
>>GRIFFIN: Going down.
Well, yes.
Just look at the
purchasing power of it.
You don't have to go
any further than that.
When the Federal Reserve bills
were introduced back in 1913,
they had the
purchasing power if we
pay get it $1 for $1,
whatever that was in 1913,
and look at it today
it's worth $0.03.
$1 is worth $0.03
in purchasing power.
>>NOORY: Unbelievable.
>>GRIFFIN: Yeah.
And that's since 1913.
That's almost
within the lifetime
of-- probably a few
people alive this still
saw the whole thing happen.
But it's generational and
it's going on all the time.
And it's part of the plan,
it's not an accident.
The people that--
>>NOORY: Well, like you said,
they're not stupid people.
>>GRIFFIN: They're
not stupid people.
And they know that as long
as they can be whittled away
at purchasing power 3%
to 5% or 6% per year,
people will grumble but
they'll put up with it.
And they get old and they die.
Their kids don't
know any different,
they don't know
what $1 used to buy.
And so they put up with it.
It's this gradual transition,
one generation to the other.
And it's a way of
milking society
of their purchasing power
by the economic scientists.
>>NOORY: How does the Federal
Reserve interact, if they do,
with world banks?
>>GRIFFIN: How do they
interact with world banks?
Well, world banks and
the Federal Reserve
are sort of joined at the hip.
They're like Siamese twins.
The World Bank is--
you might consider it
as the central
bank of the world.
The Federal Reserve
Board is the central bank
of the United States.
They're both central banks.
>>NOORY: But they
interact with each other?
>>GRIFFIN: They interact
with each other.
They share assets, they
support each other.
People go to work
from one to the other,
they move from one to the other.
The philosophy is the same,
except that the objective,
of course, is
international with the IMF,
whereas with the Federal
Reserve System it's national,
theoretically.
>>NOORY: I have heard,
this is what I heard,
that they like to loan
money to Third World nations
and force them to default
so they can take over
their assets, be it the
land or the country itself.
Did you ever hear of that?
>>GRIFFIN: Oh, yes.
>>NOORY: They don't want
the loans paid back.
>>GRIFFIN: Well, that's true.
Why would they want
a loan paid back when
they could get the country?
That's what they really want.
>>NOORY: That's the goal?
>>GRIFFIN: Yeah.
And they don't want
to own the country
in terms of real
estate, but they
want to own it politically.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>GRIFFIN: They
want the people--
>>NOORY: They want the control.
>>GRIFFIN: --the control of it.
And that has been going
on ever since-- well,
ever since the United
Nations was formed.
Yeah.
You look at these countries, the
ones that are getting trashed
are the ones that
are resisting that.
>>NOORY: Would you put this
back on the gold standard?
>>GRIFFIN: Absolutely.
Or some standard at least.
I don't care what
standard it is.
Whatever people want, they
ought to have whatever standard
they want.
Most people want some
kind of a standard,
they don't want some
politician's word.
>>NOORY: To date, we have
nothing backing up our money.
>>GRIFFIN: Except our military.
>>NOORY: That's it.
>>GRIFFIN: That's it.
And that's a lot, by the way.
>>NOORY: It may
be more than gold.
>>GRIFFIN: In fact, that's
how they look at it.
As long as we have
the supreme military,
we can demand anything we want
in any country and if they
don't comply-- if they
don't accept our dollars,
for example, in
international trade, well,
all we have to do is declare
them as a rogue nation--
>>NOORY: And take them out.
>>GRIFFIN: --and send
the Marines in and say,
look at the good
job we're doing.
We're fighting terrorism.
And they're gone.
>>NOORY: Now,
countries like Russia,
who would love their
rubles to replace
the dollar, what do they do?
>>GRIFFIN: Well, they're trying
to do the same thing, actually.
They want the game.
They want to play the
game, except they want
their game instead of our game.
>>NOORY: You can't blame them.
>>GRIFFIN: Well, no.
You can't blame them if
that's your mentality
to rule and to steal from
your fellow human beings
and do it politically
and do it legally.
Yeah, you can't
blame them unless you
look at it ethically,
which I think
is the way we should look at.
It's a terrible crime
to commit against
your fellow human beings.
>>NOORY: Yeah, absolutely.
But they don't care.
>>GRIFFIN: They don't care.
>>NOORY: And that's the big
difference with all of this.
The average person who
collects a paycheck,
who owns a car, who's trying
to make their mortgage,
does this affect him at all?
>>GRIFFIN: It affects
him from the moment
he awakes to the moment
he goes back to sleep
because it affects two things.
It affects the purchasing
power of his hourly wage.
Inflation is the
word we put to that.
He works like a dog or
she works like a cat,
however you want to keep
the genders straight here,
to make a living and
they put money aside
for their old age or to
send their kids to school.
Meanwhile, these hidden
forces are whittling away
at those dollars or whatever
monetary unit it is,
and they're stealing
it literally.
So it's a terrible,
terrible system.
And how can I say--
I don't know where
I was going with
that, except that we
have to break that system.
It's not something
I would support.
It's not sustainable.
>>NOORY: If we're around
50 years from now, Ed,
how old will I be?
I don't think I'll be here.
You might be.
>>GRIFFIN: Another 50.
>>NOORY: Would you be in shock
if the Federal Reserve were
still around 50 years from now?
>>GRIFFIN: I wouldn't expect
the Federal Reserve to exist
as such 50 years from now.
>>NOORY: It will be different.
>>GRIFFIN: Yeah.
Depending on which
scenario we take.
If we say that everything
continues without change,
I think the Federal
Reserve will be
absorbed in some kind of an
international equivalent.
>>NOORY: Yes.
As we move toward this
one world government.
>>GRIFFIN: Yeah.
That's where they want it to go.
So that's one scenario.
>>NOORY: Cashless?
>>GRIFFIN: It would be cashless.
Yeah, that's part of it.
So you can't really escape any
record of your transaction.
>>NOORY: What happens
if the grid goes down,
the power grid
goes and and we're
tied into all these electronic
figures and digits and people
don't have access
to anything anymore?
If the computer systems go down,
so does your monetary system
at that point.
>>GRIFFIN: If the
grid goes down,
George, this is the
worst case scenario
I can imagine unless the Earth
collides with another planet.
But they're in a similar
vein because it's
the end of everything
we know as life.
When the grid goes down, we
discover then that everything
we do and have depends on
power, electricity, water
coming out of the pipe.
It depends on
electricity, really.
That's our primary
source of energy.
>>NOORY: It's going to be
an interesting future, Ed.
>>GRIFFIN: We need to
do everything to prepare
and prevent that, by the way.
It's one of my favorite topics
but we won't go there today.
But it's a serious danger
and it could happen.
And the powers that be
are ignoring it primarily
because they don't
want to face it,
they don't want to be
responsible for it,
and they want to pretend
like it doesn't exist.
But it's very real in my view.
>>NOORY: Ed, thanks for
being on the program.
Appreciate it.
>>GRIFFIN: Thank
you for inviting me.
>>NOORY: The Federal
Reserve, we all
have thought-- even
I did-- that it
was part of the US government.
It is not.
Is a private cartel owned
by major banks dictating
policy to our government,
dictating how we live.
We've got to fight back.
I'm George Noory.
This is "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]